# busfs-server

Basically Useless Simple File Storage is a very minimalist server side code with a web ui that lets you upload files, view uploaded files, and (will let you) download and delete those files. It is protected by basic HTTP authentication with an easy to set config. It is written in Python using Flask.

***Warning: Do not use this app for daily usage yet. It is not completed and missing core features, but I hope soon it will be production ready.*** If you do decide to install, be sure to keep it inaccessible from outside of your local network

### Features
- Collision protection: busfs appends a character string to the end of your file to avoid collisions if the files have same names. Especially useful for backups, but still reccommended to have dates appended by the user to avoid confusion.

- Descriptions: You can add a description to the file you are uploading for more information.

- Security: busfs forces basic HTTP authentication for the entire app. Soon, there will be token based authentication and maybe even multi user support for shared and private directories later on.

- Clients: After busfs is in working order, clients for different platforms (Linux, Windows, maybe even Android) will be developed with both CLI and GUI alternatives. It is also very easy to integrate your own apps as all the API's are easily accessible.

- Simple with no maintenance: To run, you only have to install the dependencies and run a single file 

### Limitations
- Currently, busfs stores the user password in plaintext in the app.py file. Which means your username and password will reset if you just copy and paste the new version of this app in place of the old one. Regarding plaintext, it should not be an issue as someone who gets access to your server already has access to your files. Please encrypt your files if this is a concern.

- It supports only one user account. 

- UX kinda sucks right now. You have to manually reload the page to see newly added files and **you can not download or delete the files right now**

- At the VERY edge case scenario, you may encounter a collision. busfs appends a random 4 character string generated by `uuid` package to the file name but there is a 0.00006% chance of you getting a collision.

---
### Installation
After you install, the username and password will be `admin`. You may change it if you wish in the `app.py` file. Additionally, it will run on `0.0.0.0:6798`. That also can be changed in the `app.py` file.

From Github
1. Install `git`, and `python3`.
2. Run `git clone https://codeberg.org/m3r/busfs-server.git` in your terminal
3. Run `cd busfs-server`
4. Run `python3 -m venv venv`
5. Run `source venv/bin/activate`
6. Run `python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt`
   
From script
1. Run `curl https://codeberg.org/m3r/busfs-server/raw/branch/master/install.sh | sh` (works with `apt`, `dnf`, `pacman`, and `brew`)

Using Docker
1. (soon)